(upbeat music)
If you've ever tried to write HTML
inside of JavaScript you'll know that it's really
just a pain in the ass.
So what you'd have to do is you'd have
a paragraph tag and then if you want something inside of it
you have to close your quotes and you'd have to
have to concatenate in a variable inside of it
and you inevitably forget one of the pluses
and the whole thing will be broken.
And it's a little bit easier now where in ES6
you could do something with a paragraph tag
and you can, inside of that you can put
a variable name and that's fine.
However, in React there's this thing called JSX
which allows us to just mix using JavaScript
and the HTML that we love and know and that is called a JSX.
So I'm gonna show you how to use it.
And actually I should say that JSX
is not required to write a React application,
however I would say most React developers
go ahead and use it.
The alternative to not using JSX,
which looks like this, is to, maybe I had
a paragraph with a class of hey,
instead of using that I could return React
dot create element and we wanna create a paragraph tag
with some attributes, we want the class name
to be hey and the value to be heyyyooo
and if I give that a save you'll see that we render out
heyyyooo here and that is rendered out to a React element.
However, that's as we say, that's no way to live
your life because as soon as you start
getting into nested elements then you have to nest
a React dot create element inside of here
and before you know it you're just weeping in the corner
because that's really hard to write.
So, we wanna swap that out with just using
regular HTML that we love and know.
Except there's a couple gotchas and we're gonna go through
what they all are now.
So, first thing we want to do is if we have
a form tag, I'm gonna go ahead and do that,
you give your form there, and you wanna give it
a class, you can't just use regular class
of store selector, and you're gonna see here,
warning, invalid DOM property class,
did you mean class name?
So when you want to add a class for CSS purposes
you have to put a class name on it
and that will get you up and running.
I recommend using Emmet, which is probably
what you're seeing me here, I just type form
dot store selector and hit tab
and that will automatically auto complete me
and it will detect that I'm not in regular HTML,
but I'm in JSX and it will use class name instead of class.
So if you're interested in how to get that work
for your editor I have some blog posts,
just search Wes Bos React Emmet
and it will give you what you want.
The other that we need to know about this
is if you are returning multiple lines,
so for example I have this form here
and inside of that let's give ourselves
an H2 tag that says, please enter a store.
What this does is it's actually going to work just fine,
see please enter a store, we have the form tag.
However, it's not indented properly
and that, I don't know about you, but that really bugs me.
So, well you might think, okay, I'll just do this,
I'll just put it on its own line.
But JavaScript has this handy little feature
where it'll break and the handy feature
is called ASI, automatic semicolon insertion
and it'll say, return, oh, you forgot a semicolon
and it will return nothing.
So what I like to do, and this is what a lot of people do,
is you just return a pair of parentheses
and then put your HTML inside of that
and good old BEDMAS, brackets, exponents, division,
you get the point, it will return the,
it will run the code in the parentheses first
and you're able to just return parentheses and a form tag.
If you're net to JavaScript, make sure
that you're not doing this, which is return is not
a function, it's a keyword and then we're returning
whatever is inside of the parentheses.
A couple other things we need to know about JSX
and the other one is that you cannot return
what's called sibling elements.
So above the form tag if I wanted to return
a paragraph tag that says fish and give that a save,
it's gonna yell at me and it's going to say,
failed to compile adjacent JSX elements
must be wrapped in a closing tag.
And that is because from a render method
you can only ever return one element.
You can put as many elements inside of the parent
element as you want, you just can't like,
if I put the paragraph inside of there it works just fine,
you just can't return sibling elements.
So that could be a problem, especially if you're using
a flex box or CSS grid where you need to return
six or seven children with no wrapper.
The solution to that, and this is brand new
in React 16.2, is you can wrap them in a React
dot fragment tag and then put this inside of there
and then that allows us to do things like
put our paragraph tag inside of it,
you can return as many adjacent elements as you want
and that React fragment tag is going to render
out to nothing.
Let me show you what I mean by that.
If we open it up, open up our store picker,
you see that it just renders out
just a paragraph tag and a form tag.
Previously what you had to do is just render out
a dummy div and then that gave you all these
extra unnecessary divs in your markup
which can really goof up your CSS
if you're using any sort of flex box or grid.
So React fragment is what you want.
It is coming soon where we'll be able
to do something like this where you just render out
blank tags and blank closing tags,
however it is currently not in the Babel version
that create your React app supports, so it won't work.
So the easiest way is to render out React dot fragment
or you can also import it like this,
fragment and then you can just render out a fragment tag
and that will do the exact same thing.
So put that in your back pocket
because you're going to need it.
Another thing you need to know about is commenting in JSX
does not look like commenting in regular React.
What we actually need to do for comments
is use curly brackets and JavaScript comments.
So, inside of here if I wanted to leave myself
a comment I would give myself a set of curly brackets
and curly brackets in JSX means
I'm doing some JavaScript, and we'll go
much more into this, but that notes
to JSX that I'm gonna hop back into JavaScript land
for a quick second and maybe set a variable,
maybe do a calculation, in our case
we're just going to do a comment which is this.
And it'll look like that.
So there is no regular HTML comments like that
or there is no just forward slash, forward slash comments
because that will comment out the closing bracket.
So you must use a block comment in JavaScript
and most editors, VS Code, will know
that you're in React JSX code and it'll hook up
your command forward slash to just automatically
toggle those comments on and off.
So it's not too much of an issue,
you just have to remember those things.
One other things is, don't put a comment above here,
that's going to give you the same issue
that we had where if you are, I've wasted many hours
on this before I wrote myself a little comment
like this is a store picker, and it tells you,
syntax error, unexpected token, comma, what.
And I finally realized that it was that whole
adjacent JSX selector.
The error message doesn't tell you that,
but you cannot return both a comment
and an element, if you want to have a comment
you must put it inside of your returned element.
Whether that's a fragment or a regular div tag
or a form tag in our case,
and that will get you up and running.
So, let's get rid of that form,
we'll get our H2 tag, we also need an input
with the type of text.
We want a required attribute on there
and we'll have a placeholder which is enter
or store name and then we'll have a button
with the type of submit and then inside of that
we will say, visit store, put a little arrow there.
Good, it's not styled yet, but we're gonna get into that
in the next video, you should see it being rendered out.
If we look at our elements panel, it's just regular,
let's open it up here, it's just the div, the main
and a form in all of our regular elements,
but if we look at it in our React dev tools
as React sees it, it's simply just a store picker component
which we could use all throughout our application.
(mumbles)
Now if you click on that, it's actually not
going to do anything, that's because we have not
hooked up the events just yet, but we will
be coming to that in a very soon video as well.
See you in the next one.